Alexander sun
Professor Muscolino
Elements of style
7 september 2021
Adventure Novels: a past love and current influence
I always considered myself an avid reader up until the 6th grade. I still love reading, but I haven’t picked up a book in quite a while. At some point reading became a chore, and I couldn’t figure out why. It feels like yesterday when a young Alex rushed home from Barnes & Noble with his hands wrapped around a new hardcover book. I couldn’t resist starting on the car ride home, despite the car sickness that I would always experience. The teal blue cover with a golden mechanical dragon on elicited dreams of adventure and action. I knew I had to have the book the second I spotted it, solely based on the exciting cover alone. When I found out it belonged to my favorite series ever, Percy Jackson, I was ecstatic. I gripped the book tightly, embracing it. It was mine now. I feel like I can remember the weightiness, the formfactor, and the smell of the fresh hardcover book even today. I sprinted up to my mom begging her to buy it for me. she would always sigh in exasperation and lament at how I buy too many books. she always proceeded to remind me to use the library for books, but after seeing my joyous expression, she never could resist. I always bolted to my room, jumped on my bed, and began a journey, lasting days where every free second is filled with adventure, action, and teen love. Novels were my insatiable addiction until one day when I realized that my passion had  decided to get up and disappear altogether.
	Today, whenever I go home, I lay next to two tall bookshelves filled with stories of my youth. Percy Jackson, Unwanteds, Young Elites, Hunger Games, and so many other series cover the well-organized shelves collecting dust. It contains over 100 books arranged alphabetically by author’s last name perfectly, a sign that I clearly hadn’t touched anything on the shelf in a while. With no additions and withdrawals recently, the books are like artifacts. They aren’t to be touched, only looked at from far away. It’s almost like everything froze in place and formed a perfect record of my elementary school life, only a decoration piece in my room now. 
	My bookshelf elicits thoughts that weighed heavily on me. On one hand, it demonstrated an innocent love for reading, but on the other it showed a current version of myself that doesn’t share that feeling. I remember the day I realized that I had fallen out with reading. A normal day had just passed in junior high: I distinctly remember when the next Percy Jackson spinoff released, I just didn’t feel a need to pick it up. surprisingly enough, I hadn’t even heard of it before that day. I had merely heard my friends discussing it and enjoying it at their cafeteria tables. For the first time ever, instead of feeling any sense of excitement, I just ignored its existence. When I was asked about it, I just answered: “No, I haven’t read it yet, and don’t really plan on it.” I imagine that this decline in interest had been occurring over the course of a couple months. Then I realized that the spark had really fizzled out.
 	It remained this way for a few years, and life only kept on getting busier. Reading devolved into more of a chore as well. When I spent so much time during the day reading for classes, research, and clubs, did I really want to spend my free time reading even more? I preferred throwing on an interesting YouTube video after a long day. I still wanted to read and pick up books again, but it just didn’t seem possible. “Give up”. That’s the answer that I had settled on for a while. 
	During my sophomore year summer in high school, my mom recommended me Elon Musk’s biography. Over the years, she had always been the biggest advocate for picking up a book again. Her nagging never ended at the dinner table, and I had learned to ignore it, but this time, her suggestion slipped through. The sentiment got through to me the second she mentioned the name Elon Musk. I was extremely interested in his utterly ridiculous ventures that were somehow all successful and had to know more. The thought of spaceX attempting to land rockets back on earth after a space trip, or the all-electric Tesla Model X with falcon doors immediately come to mind. Despite the novelty of entering Elon’s brain, I still picked up the book with a hinge of hesitation. It almost felt like work. Even opening up the hardcover shell with a picture of Musk simply crossing his arms seemed daunting. The time commitment weighed on me, and it hadn’t even begun yet. I felt unnecessarily stressed and nervous even. 
	As I began reading, time slipped away like it used to all those years ago. I flew into the story like any other adventure novel that I had read as a teen, and I felt the same passion that I had missed. The spark lit up again. With every chapter, a new page in Musk’s life revealed itself. I reveled in every moment of it. I saw pieces of myself in him and wanted to understand and be like him. He was a self-taught programmer that loved to make and play games, which reminded me of my start in Computer science. I listened to exciting stories about startups, heartbreak, and triumph. The book challenged me to place myself in his shoes and to think like he would. It was like returning to something you had loved but given up for one reason or another. The words flying off the page felt natural, and pages flipped themselves. It was every bit as engaging as a YouTube video and satisfied my attention until I finished reading through the entire thing over the course of two days, nonstop. Once I finished, I was reminded of something. I felt like I finally had an answer to my question.
 The piece affirmed my love for reading. This is something that I don’t want to leave behind. The epiphany hit me like a truck. At the time, I had no idea why that one book changed my perspective on everything, but after reflecting upon it, I found that my heart never moved on from its first love: storytelling. It’s just that the novelty of superhuman abilities, far away adventure, destiny, and all that I used to know and love, ran out. As I grew up, I must have developed a new craving for stories in the context of the real world. Biographies are just real-world examples of adventure novels.
In the context of writing, I noticed that my style draws upon the often simplistic and clearer nature of storytelling-based writing. The feeling of following a character through a story is natural to me, and it reflects in how I write scientific writing. I have a habit of always writing from the perspective of the researcher. This often works during the methodology sections but tends to fail when writing about conclusions that aren’t as concrete. However, I think that my experience with this type of reading has prepared me well to face presentations and gearing my writing towards general audiences. As my audience narrows to a more technical crowd, my comfort here begins to apply less. That doesn’t mean that I will stop reading biographies by any means, as I truly do enjoy them, but I will try to mix in more technical literature when I can. Overall, the trend seems to be upward for both my writing and reading habits. I’m becoming more aware of my likes and dislikes and am actively trying to build anew. Now with all that said, I can only hope to proceed forward with grace.
	


